# Visualisation of simulated graphs and matching algorithms

This part of the project focuses on the visualisation of the simulated graphs generated by the generation part of the project as well as the results of different matching algorithms.

## Dependencies

This part have the same dependencies as the generation part. Here is the installation procedure to follow :


In order to run the above code, one need to be sure to have set the right environment. We recommend to use Anaconda to do so. The depedency are as follow (latest version runs on python 3.6):

numpy:
```sh
pip install numpy
```

networkx:
```sh
pip install networkx
```

trimesh:
```sh
pip install trimesh
```

slam:
slam is an layer that comes over trimesh and which is used to sample random points on the surface of a sphere. To use it, one first needs to clone the project from https://github.com/gauzias/slam . 
In order to make the conda environement recognize slam as an external module, one need to add a file named slam_path.pth (or any name with the extension .pth) in path/to/conda/envs/{env-name}/lib/pythonX.X/site-packages/ .  The .pth file contains one line of text that gives the absolute path to the slam module : "path/to/slam" 


## What visualisations are you providing ?

There is two types of possible visualisation, both depending on the stereographic projection of the points that lies on a sphere to a plan. The first visualisation plots the reference graph and the noisy graph together to see the impact of the noise and of outliers on the generation. The second visualisation takes the result of a matching algorithm and show the matching choices of the algorithm as well as if they are correct or not. This second visualisation is provided for the four algorithms we have tested.

## Description of the different files

### script_generate_visualisation_matching.py

The script generates the visualisation mentionned earlier. It needs the path to a folder where a pair of graph and matching results are kept. It also needs the path to a folder where the different files will be created. It has other optionnal arguments now described :
* --noise: The noise variance value used to create the graphs. This value will be infered from the folder name if possible, otherwise the value provided by the user will be used.
* --nb_vertices: The number of vertices used to generate the graphs (useful to get the number of outliers), default = 1.
* --acceptable_norm: The stereo projection can create outliers when points are close to the north pole of the sphere, this argument decide of the maximum norm allowed for the vector on the projected plan. The points which have a bigger norm will be discared.
